# SALT Storage Service

A service for storing proposal content for the Southern African Large Telescope (SALT).

## Prerequisites

### Python

Python 3.8 must be installed for running the service.

### Environment variables

The following environment variables need to be defined.

Variable name | Description | Example
--- | --- | ---
CONVERT_COMMAND | Comma d for converting images | /usr/bin/convert
DATABASE_URL | DSN for the database. | mysql://username:password@my.database.server:3306/my_database
EPHEMERIS_URL | URL for requesting asteroid ephemerides. | http://pysalt.salt.ac.za/finder_chart/ephemerides.cgi
FINDER_CHART_TOOL | Command for generating finer charts | saltfc
MAPPING_TOOL_API_KEY | API key for using the mapping tool | ABcd1234
MAPPING_TOOL_DATABASE_ACCESS_CONFIG | Path of the file containing the database access configuration for the mapping tool. | /path/to/DatabaseAccess.conf
MAPPING_TOOL_JAR | Path of the jar file containing the mapping tool. | /path/to/MappingService.jar
MAPPING_TOOL_LOG_DIR | Directory containing the log files. generated by the mapping tool | /path/to/mapper_logs
MAPPING_TOOL_PROPOSAL_DIR | Directory where the mapping tool should store proposals | /path/to/proposals
PIPT_DIR | Directory used for storing PIPT related files | /home/user/.PIPT
SALT_API_PUBLIC_KEY | Path of the file containing the public key of the SALT API server (see below). | /path/to/salt_api_key.pub
SALT_API_URL | URL of the SALT API server | https://saltapi.salt.ac.za
SENTRY_DSN | DSN for recording exceptions with Sentry | http://xyz123@sentry.io/1234567 
SUBMISSION_DIR | Directory where the submitted files should be stored | /path/to/submissions
WEB_MANAGER_DIR | Directory in which Web Manager content is stored | /home/user/wm
WEB_MANAGER_URL | URL of the Web Manager | https://www.salt.ac.za/wm

These variables can (but don't have to) be defined in a file called `.env` in the root folder.

The public key file whose path is stored in the `ALT_API_PUBLIC_KEY` file will be created by the server automatically. However, its parent directory must exist. An existing file will be overwritten.

The `PORT` variable is optional; port 8000 is used as default. 

## Running the server for development

Make sure that [poetry](https://python-poetry.org) is installed on your machine and run the following command.

```shell script
poetry install
```

You can then launch the server as follows.

```shell script
poetry run uvicorn storage.app:app --reload
```

The `--reload` flag is optional; it ensures that the server is restarted when files change.

## Setting up Docker

If you are using Docker for running the server, you must define the environment variables in a `.env` file in the root directory. In addition to the variables mentioned in the Prerequisites section above, this file must define the following variable.

Variable name | Description | Example
--- | --- | ---
PORT | Port on which the server is listening | 1234

The values of the following environment variables must refer to files and directories on the host; they are mounted in the container:

* MAPPING_TOOL_DATABASE_ACCESS_CONFIG
* MAPPING_TOOL_JAR
* MAPPING_TOOL_LOG_DIR
* MAPPING_TOOL_PROPOSAL_DIR
* PIPT_DIR
* SUBMISSION_DIR

You can build (and update) the server by running the following command in the root folder:

```
docker-compose up -- build
```
